---
layout: post
title:  "Only Infrastructure"
date:   2015-11-10T23:40:07+01:00
categories: general
---
Today it has been one of those *infrastructure days*, I have tried to launch an instance
of an EC2 Amazon virtual machine and install all the requirements required for 
[Theano][theano] and [Lasagne][lasagne] python packages but as expected I have 
had some problems.

My first try was to use a micro instance of Linux (because it is *free*) but errors 
aroused installing matplotlib which was a dependency of the above packages. Finally I was 
able to install it with `apt-get install python-matplotlib` if I remember correctly and 
after some tweaks here and there the packages were working and the [Lasagne][lasagne] 
*Hello World* was running... Then? What was the problem? Well, the script was taking
ages to complete and eventually the terminal disconnected because of *errors*.

Eventually I launched the recommended instance of the [tutorial][deep_tut] and the Lasagne
script worked as a charm (I just needed to spend some money!).

### Things I've learned today
- Spot Instances in Amazon are cheaper but they cannot be stopped
- Using PuTTY to connect through SSH to an EC2 Linux instance is straightforward if 
you have your Key. Just remember to use the proper identifier and public IP.
- Installing matplotlib on Linux is not as straightforward as expected.

Tomorrow I will carry on working on the [Tutorial][deep_tut]. Wish me good luck!


[deep_tut]: https://www.kaggle.com/c/facial-keypoints-detection/details/deep-learning-tutorial
[theano]: http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/
[lasagne]: http://lasagne.readthedocs.org/en/latest/user/installation.html